Hello and welcome back to that advance course and in programming now in this section we're talking about
the plight family of functions.
Now the life only functions is something that is quite unique to our programming language.
And oftentimes when an analyst or data scientist comes into our and they're quite new to this language
and they're just starting out who are they are to say the least very cautious with the Apply functions
and that is because even if you're coming with a programming background like for instance I came into
our with a C C++ Java aged him well and even javascript program background at the same time it is hard
to get your head around the family functions because they are very different to what you're used to
.
And in essence that platform functions is a shortcut.
You can think of it as a shortcut to running loops in arm.
And as the name suggests the uplift functions or any one of the plie functions allows you to apply a
certain other function to an object and or an object can be a matrix can be a list can be a vector can
be lots of different objects that you can apply a function to.
And there's quite a few functions in this family as you'll see and they all have different applications
.
And why were they created in the first place.
Well that is because our is a language that it was originally developed as rather that a programming
language it was developed as a language for statisticians to be able to get insights into their daughter
very quickly and then it became a data science programming language.
So that is where it originated from.
And so therefore that shortcut was necessary so that people wouldn't have to sit and write out all these
loops and all this code and take a long time to write the actual code apply.
Family functions allows you to do very sophisticated analytics very quickly.
Personally it took me a long time to get my head around it.
It took me a long time to understand and start using apply functions more and more in my code and that
is why this section is here.
We want to get up to speed with Apply functions very quickly and that's why I'm going to show you some
real life examples of some very interesting analytics that you can perform some very powerful analytics
that you can perform with family functions so that you can go away and after the section or really start
exploring how you can apply these apply functions in your own work in your own career and that way you
will really take your skills to the next level call away to see on the first tutorial.
And let's dive straight in.